Gwenevere Abriel: Good morning.
Nadine Quintana: I'm so sorry. I don't know what I did to my phone and it got disabled. So when you were calling. I couldn't even answer it. And then I shut off my phone and it started all over again.
Nadine Quintana: Yeah, that's
Gwenevere Abriel: Part of that weird payment thing you have on that phone. Is that possible.
Nadine Quintana: I don't know if
Nadine Quintana: I don't
Nadine Quintana: I don't think so. I think when because I set my alarm clock and I don't know if, when I went to put it on snooze. I might have put something else in my sleep or something, I don't know what I
Nadine Quintana: Did when I finally woke up on the second time it was disabled the phone was disabled. So I tried to mess with it and the alarm was going off and off. I couldn't reach out my alarm.
Nadine Quintana: I wonder, though, is I
Gwenevere Abriel: Sounds broken
Nadine Quintana: I don't know something's wrong. Maybe for me taking it in the shower with me, I messed it up. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well, you're here right now your video is frozen lets you there. I got got you back for a second. Okay. All right, let me
Gwenevere Abriel: Real quick, get a note open
Nadine Quintana: I mean,
Gwenevere Abriel: You have the same sort of distress level this last time, or is it seem like it's gone down a little bit.
Nadine Quintana: No, it's gone down a lot.
Gwenevere Abriel: How's your son.
Nadine Quintana: He's doing good. He's actually home.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you get home.
Nadine Quintana: He got home.
Nadine Quintana: Today Monday.
Saturday.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. So what was it like for him in there.
Nadine Quintana: He said, It wasn't bad. It wasn't, it was an awful but it was he'd rather be home.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, it's not a hotel. He was supposed
Nadine Quintana: To get
Gwenevere Abriel: Us to get treatment. What What treatment did he receive. I'm sure you have discharge paperwork. What did you receive
Nadine Quintana: Um, he end up receiving counseling.
Nadine Quintana: He just he just said that he just did like activities and stuff like that and then just counseling.
Nadine Quintana: You know, and then they put him on some meds.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you feel those scripts yet.
Nadine Quintana: Yes, um,
Nadine Quintana: I don't have the things in there.
Nadine Quintana: He said that he that he gets kinda like shaky and stuff but I found him a counselor down here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Uh huh.
Nadine Quintana: And and he said, you know, just to take him till he sees him and then that we if he's still filled him like, boy, he is that they'll prescribe something else and stuff so
Nadine Quintana: Yeah.
Nadine Quintana: He's doing
Nadine Quintana: Seems like he's doing better, but it's still soon. You know, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Did he I mean are you open with him, you're not sharing a lot about content is that because you didn't talk to too much, you just sort of he can in an interview and the other was there processing of what happened.
Nadine Quintana: No, I had to talk with him, you know,
Nadine Quintana: I just let him know that
Nadine Quintana: You know, like I just told him, like I you know I'm here for him. And if something's like bothering him and stuff like maybe this is a
Nadine Quintana: Really good idea that he sees somebody because obviously there's something there, you know, and if he doesn't feel comfortable talking to me or you know somebody else in the family that may be like having a counselor would
Nadine Quintana: Be good.
Gwenevere Abriel: To know how to see. I agree with you.
Nadine Quintana: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: any specifics about what he's going through with maybe a rip male role model, any of that come up
Nadine Quintana: I tried getting it out of him, but he didn't feel being, I said, you know, you know, preserve your God being or any of that. And he didn't say anything.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Nadine Quintana: And so yeah, um,
Nadine Quintana: But yeah, I just let him know you know I was here for him and stuff and
Gwenevere Abriel: When you are meeting with me before you were crying sort of emotional. What do you know what are your thoughts now.
Gwenevere Abriel: That maybe those emotions. I just intense
Nadine Quintana: I feel
Nadine Quintana: Like a little bit like a lot more calmer.
Nadine Quintana: And then I spent time out of town. And I spent time with my sisters. So I think that kind of help to like talk about a lot of stuff that was bothering me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that feels good. Somebody kind of understand you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you talk about
Gwenevere Abriel: Your mom with your sister.
Nadine Quintana: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: And when you
Gwenevere Abriel: Talk about
Nadine Quintana: Well, when I was telling her like everything that was going on and stuff. She was
Nadine Quintana: She was telling me the same thing that she like she was getting like stressed out, like my moms like really stressed out to and I didn't know you know
Nadine Quintana: And she's pregnant and she's do like in two more months and she's like,
Nadine Quintana: This is supposed to be like the happiest time of my life. Like I'm supposed to be happy and excited to say, and I'm afraid to have this thing because a mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Really
Gwenevere Abriel: What does that mean that means
Nadine Quintana: Because of the way my mom is like the way my mom could be like she's tired, my, my sister, like, oh, you should have your brother and his wife peptides, the baby and
Nadine Quintana: My, my sisters, like, I'm not going to have been baptized. The baby that I'm going to have whoever me and my husband wanted that to be, you know, and it wouldn't be my brother's wife like she doesn't ever like included us and stuff, you know, so
Nadine Quintana: My sister's like you know I'm going to have whoever like we decide and my moms like gets like grill her and like starts telling her wall you know that far right, that you do that after your brother and I like your team her into it, you know.
Nadine Quintana: Right, and then they with everything going on like my sisters like
Nadine Quintana: My sister told me, like, the best thing to ever happen was they this covert thing they not the actual being but like how they're doing so because how there's only one person allowed in the delivery room which is her husband.
Nadine Quintana: She's like, I'm so glad like mom can't be there and like like my mom tells. They're like, oh, you know, the baby like people are going to come see the baby and so am I just was like, No, I don't want nobody seen the baby, you know, because everything going on.
Nadine Quintana: And my moms like, oh, you could just have them come to the house and you know just show them the baby by the door. My sister's like no I don't want to do that and like my mom gets like grill like her like she gets hurt right away and
Nadine Quintana: Like
Nadine Quintana: Trying to make my sister feel bad. You know, so I didn't know, like my sister was going through any of that stuff, either.
Nadine Quintana: And she's, she's getting like so stressed out, like when I came back from visiting her. She's like,
Nadine Quintana: We need to do something like we need to talk to mom like, we really need to tell her what she's doing to us because she's stressing us out and
Nadine Quintana: You know,
Nadine Quintana: She was just like, wanting me to like that girl like be there with her stuff.
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you actually think that your mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you have brought things up to her that she
Gwenevere Abriel: Can sit with it. Now, there's lots of different ways to say sit with it. There's own your grain of truth. Right. That's her saying, oh, I see my part, take accountability, responsibility, I'm validate you validate sister. Have you seen times when she's been able to do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And how old are you,
Nadine Quintana: Happy
Gwenevere Abriel: What makes you think that she's going to do that now.
Nadine Quintana: I'm
Nadine Quintana: Good like my sister will try telling her stuff, but just telling her, like, hey mom like, you know, like China, telling her, like, if it's
Nadine Quintana: Something my sister disagrees with or something like my mom was are paying the victim, it should be, they
Nadine Quintana: Were being mean to her.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what I'm saying. What makes you guys your sister just said, Oh, I gotta talk to my mom about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: What gives you evidence. Your mom can handle that she won't find it.
Nadine Quintana: Ends up like
Nadine Quintana: Excited she ends up calling me and national complain about my sister and she'll be like crying and be like, oh, Denise was doing
Nadine Quintana: You know, Denise was being mean to me and all I told her was, you know, that she should do this and and
Nadine Quintana: She started getting mad with me and it's not even that my sister is getting mad at her and my sisters just telling her, you know, like a mom, I don't want to do that.
Nadine Quintana: And my mom like will start calling you know, whoever else and they telling them you know like the other person's bad person and she was just
Nadine Quintana: Saying what she has to say and and
Nadine Quintana: And she tries to like
Nadine Quintana: Like for an example.
Nadine Quintana: We bought my sister's baby like so much stuff like my sister, the butter so much stuff like my sister's like hey guys like she told my mom, you know, like, can you guys
Nadine Quintana: Give you know my husband's side of the family chance to buy the baby stuff because they haven't bought the baby anything
Nadine Quintana: You know, so you think you guys could maybe like just stop, you know,
Nadine Quintana: And my mom calls me and she's like, Oh, your sister. She's just, you know, I don't know why she asked. I don't know why.
Nadine Quintana: Because her husband's name is Joe. She's like, Joe's family could buy him stuff like we do. We go to the store, we just buy things that we like like at his family do that and
Nadine Quintana: And you know, it's not that they can't do that. It's just that my sister hadn't put up like a registry yet like they didn't know what she needed, you know, and my sister, try to explain that.
Nadine Quintana: And then my mom starts with, Oh, we'll tell them not to buy this and tell him not to pay that. And I'm going to buy it and my sister like mom know like
Nadine Quintana: You know, give them a chance to buy it like you guys spent like so much money ready like you guys you know
Nadine Quintana: It helps you guys out, and you guys all need to be spending more money and that way they could help out to like she chose to put it in the nicest way.
Nadine Quintana: And my mom's just like things. My sister's been mean because she called me like right after that she's like, Oh, these over here and she's telling us not to buy the baby anything so you know what don't buy the baby nothing to just get him nothing, no more and
Gwenevere Abriel: So needed
Gwenevere Abriel: You're, you're, you're giving me more evidence that your mom not be able
Gwenevere Abriel: To change.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now that's depressing. That's discouraging heartbreaking.
Gwenevere Abriel: But what if it's true. What if she's not ready. What if what's needed is just acceptance not you and your sister asking her to be anything other than what she is. But rather you guys changing the way you view her because it doesn't sound like
Gwenevere Abriel: Look, I don't know. You guys know your mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's why I asked a question, I did because if you did come back and you said, No, you know what
Gwenevere Abriel: When I said you know what I'd really don't want to hear about you, your beliefs about what to do with my husband. I'm enjoying my new relationship might change the relationship with my husband, it's important to always be the father of my children and
Gwenevere Abriel: And she said something like maybe she said
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, it took me a week or so. But I thought about that. And you're right, it is your life and and an A partnership and a marriage.
Gwenevere Abriel: Only those two people know what's really going on. But she didn't say that she didn't say anything like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I want to show you something and and you can tell me if you've seen this already, but I just wonder if watching this 12 minute video by Ariel on how to deal with gaslighting has for and if you have your, your recovery journal handy handy. But today would be a good day for that one.
Nadine Quintana: Let me get a real quick.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd like to show it to you because it might be useful.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh at the top of the page. Just put the word gaslighting and then put for four or five steps. There's really primarily only two but
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, this is just a lay person. She's not a clinician, this is just a child of a mother who gets lights.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay gaslight is not a clinical term.
Gwenevere Abriel: And as you learn this, you're going to see it all over the place.
Gwenevere Abriel: You might even consider self.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's basically
Gwenevere Abriel: When someone outside of you denies
Gwenevere Abriel: The truth.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you were to say I'm feeling lonely. Your mother might say, No, you're not. You know what that is. It's just this de de de or
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm I'm enjoying my relationship with my husband. I feel like we've evolved. No, no, no. That's just you, you're insecure denied.
Gwenevere Abriel: Reality. So listen to her story, although it's not like yours. Exactly. It's like no one's it's her story. But listen closely to what the mother does chose this woman who was obviously the child. She's now an adult Alicia just got she'll share the screen with a couple items on what to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: It now. The world is experiencing what I experienced every day as a child.
Gwenevere Abriel: There is chaos confusion.
Gwenevere Abriel: Everything is upside down.
Gwenevere Abriel: Reality is being cancelled and nothing means anything
Gwenevere Abriel: gaslighting refers to when someone manipulates you into questioning your own sanity.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a term we are hearing a lot of right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a term. I'm very familiar with.
Gwenevere Abriel: People are perhaps confused with how to manage and to cope with the situation. And that's where I can help.
Gwenevere Abriel: When I was in my mid 30s. I had a meeting with my editor and it was my first major journalism assignment for the Sunday Times magazine.
Gwenevere Abriel: I gone to meet him for a drink and I was feeling hopeful. I was feeling like things might work out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And as I was leaving another writer arrived.
Gwenevere Abriel: This writer recognized me from when I was a child, and he said, Are you so and so's daughter and I replied, Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hit been a guest at one of my mother's dinner parties.
Gwenevere Abriel: After I left this meeting my editor told me
Gwenevere Abriel: It said how I always wondered how that little girl would survive. I had thought her own and chances or suicide or murder.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you told me this line. I felt validation, because here was this person who had actually witnessed what I knew to be true and it confirmed what I knew
Gwenevere Abriel: So he had said two options suicide or murder. Why would he say that. And what does this have to do with gas lighting.
Gwenevere Abriel: I grew up in an environment that from the outside, seemed privileged an enviable my mother was a very glamorous poet and an artist, and there were always very interesting people around.
Gwenevere Abriel: Them a boogeyman world.
Gwenevere Abriel: She loved entertaining and there would be raucous parties on weeknights I would be in my bed trying to go to sleep, and I would be woken up with drunken laughter noise outside the bedroom.
Gwenevere Abriel: And sometimes these people would come into my room to escape from the crowd and they would sit and they would smoke and they would use the bathroom.
Gwenevere Abriel: And other times I would get up in my night gown and open the door and shout desperately. Please, can be quiet. It's a school night I have to go to sleep. I have to get up tomorrow.
Gwenevere Abriel: My mother would reply Ariel come to the party or she would say after the belly dancer. Everyone will go home.
Gwenevere Abriel: It was total bombardment.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the following morning, what would happen is I would confront her about the situation and it was as though this disruption had never happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: What I thought had happened, I was being told had not happened and that I was making a big deal out of nothing, just want to check in with you, you understand everything so far.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: If I confronted her with the facts. They were bad in a way
Gwenevere Abriel: I was sprayed with words of adoration and words of content.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're stupid idiot, and I wish you had never been born
Gwenevere Abriel: When I confronted her about having said this to me. I was told I was making it up and and it was a lot
Gwenevere Abriel: So it wasn't just that my reality was canceled, but my perceptions of reality or overwritten.
Gwenevere Abriel: And one of the most insidious things about gaslighting is the denial of reality.
Gwenevere Abriel: being denied what you have seen with your own eyes, and you know to be true being denied an experience that you have had and you know is real.
Gwenevere Abriel: For me, the ratio of the abuse was worse than the abuse.
Gwenevere Abriel: That makes sense for not being believed was worse than EBS itself eraser.
Nadine Quintana: What's that mean to her.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you know the word erase like with a an eraser.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so it's this neat word is kind of comes from that word eraser. So the eraser of the abuse was worse than the abuse itself. In other words, you know, she had this abuse with from her mother, but that wasn't even as bad for her as being told it didn't happen.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so it's it's at the end validating of her reality that was more painful, so it can make you crazy.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you are not crazy.
Gwenevere Abriel: I developed for strategies they helped me and at the time I didn't even know they were strategies. So in these uncertain times. I'm going to share them with you and maybe they can help you to
Gwenevere Abriel: Number one is to remain defiant
Gwenevere Abriel: So write that one down. I was a little girl. I wrote a story about running away from home.
Gwenevere Abriel: And when my mother saw the story, she said.
Gwenevere Abriel: It wasn't true, and demanded I change it and I didn't change it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I actually yelled out, I am not changing my story. I'm not
Gwenevere Abriel: This defiance was key because I was trusting my version of reality and not allowing it to be altered on demand.
Gwenevere Abriel: This anger protected me and knew what I knew and it couldn't be erased.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the person gaslighting you will often try to bully you
Gwenevere Abriel: But being defiant is something that does not make you difficult it's being resilient.
Gwenevere Abriel: Recognize that you will never get accountability.
Gwenevere Abriel: In my late 20s, I tried to confront the truth remain defiance. The first one. The second one, recognize there will never be accountability, which means the person says, Yes, I see, I see my part, I see my part, I realized what I did.
Gwenevere Abriel: That may never happen about what happened in my childhood I was sitting with my mother in a Japanese restaurant and I said the words, child abuse, for the first time out loud.
Gwenevere Abriel: I said it playfully so she didn't feel like it was an attack on her and immediately her response was, what about mommy abuse, nobody ever talks about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I learned in that you recognize that. What about me, that's that that's that guilt trip, that's that that's that same thing. So that's kind of what she's talking about right here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Moment was that she would never be able to take accountability for her actions, she would never get it. She would never say, Oh, you're right. You have a point
Gwenevere Abriel: And that acknowledgement was not in the cards.
Gwenevere Abriel: Asserting myself was not just useful, but it was harmful.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because the person gaslighting you will never be able to respond to logic or reason. And so if you
Gwenevere Abriel: Hearing that
Gwenevere Abriel: For you and your sister, say this is supposed to be.
Gwenevere Abriel: The happiest time in my life. Please conform to this social, it is, it isn't a fact just happens to be something that you your sister wants it's it's it's her fantasy, it's got nothing to do with your mom's fantasy, but your sister has a particular fantasy about being pregnant and
Gwenevere Abriel: What may happen is your mother may not honor that meaning won't say oh, yes, that makes sense. Well, let's see what we can do to make this an amazing experience. Instead what may happen is
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, what about everything that I do for all of you and
Gwenevere Abriel: You see that
Gwenevere Abriel: Just throwing it out there.
Gwenevere Abriel: That you can apply logic and reason you're going to feel let down
Gwenevere Abriel: With this recognition. You are no longer powerless.
Gwenevere Abriel: Letting go of the wish for it to be different. This is a big one for me because don't wish for to get different is very powerful inoculates you to the tumult
Gwenevere Abriel: So this number three means
Gwenevere Abriel: Radical acceptance. It means just like oh the wish that it be different.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mom may never change.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or you and I can talk later on, start to see something else in her but this has to do with addressing the current suffering of you and your sister.
Gwenevere Abriel: Letting go of the wish GEE, I WISH mom were different.
Gwenevere Abriel: And tumult means just chaos.
Gwenevere Abriel: It allows you to continue to believe that logic and reason will prevail.
Gwenevere Abriel: And after a particularly bad episode. My mother would reassure me that it would never happen again.
Gwenevere Abriel: It would happen again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Promises were broken. And I realized that I could not rely on her work.
Gwenevere Abriel: With gaslighting the person gaslighting you makes you feel as though the ground is always shifting beneath your feet and that you have no center of gravity.
Gwenevere Abriel: You want things to make sense, but they won't
Gwenevere Abriel: Engaging with someone who is gaslighting you means you will never feel hurt. So what's the solution you stop engaging and you put yourself first.
Gwenevere Abriel: Number four, would be to develop a healthy detachment. I had to develop coping mechanisms or not. So this is the actual one
Gwenevere Abriel: What this is the what to do. It doesn't mean you stop loving it doesn't mean you stop talking. It just means
Gwenevere Abriel: You stop expecting things to be different. And when someone does a gaslighting behavior like denies your reality, this never happened or guilt trips, you do not engage in that conversation.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just don't engage
Gwenevere Abriel: You can still love them, you can
Gwenevere Abriel: Accept. What is but getting into content where you hope logic and reason will work.
Gwenevere Abriel: It will fail, nine out of 10 times just will fail because that's not, they're not using logic and reasoning. They're using emotional reasoning.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, this is you're going to recognize this in words like healthy boundaries, being able to say this is her stuff she's just. This is just the same sort of a game that she's been playing a long time, my whole life. Maybe, but
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what my reality is my reality. I'll just turn my attention to my sister.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll see if I can just create that, but I'm not going to try and use logic to convince my mother to change your mind.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not going to do it. So it's not engaging in that content, you just sort of pulled back on that part you can continue to love and accept but you stopped trying to convince them to change their thinking.
Gwenevere Abriel: I was a child.
Gwenevere Abriel: The back and forth and the push and pull affection was emotional whiplash. You're wonderful you're horrible. I love you, I hate you. I had to protect myself by believing that nothing meant anything
Gwenevere Abriel: So if you can't invest in anything. The other person says what happens. Well, when you grow up, there's a price for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: What had been adapted as a child became maladaptive as an adult.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know that one adaptive
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay so adaptive means
Gwenevere Abriel: It works.
Gwenevere Abriel: You do something in your life to adapt.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you have someone you sleep with it snores you put your clothes in years you adapt or
Gwenevere Abriel: Like what we're doing right now. If someone emotionally hijacked you you learn, you know what, I'm just not going to talk about things that I already know we're not going to agree on the adapt to our environment. If it's Mal.
Gwenevere Abriel: Adapter. That's what she's saying what she's saying. And when she was younger was adaptive
Gwenevere Abriel: And then, as an adult, it became now adaptive Molly means bad so not adaptive. So she's going to talk
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, what was good when you were a kid me not really work that well in adult relationships so trusting was very difficult. I was always needing verification. I became vigilant about clarity.
Gwenevere Abriel: There was no room for misunderstanding and there was no no margin for error.
Gwenevere Abriel: Somebody asked me once, what are you looking for in a relationship, and I replied certainty.
Gwenevere Abriel: I needed certainty in an uncertain world.
Gwenevere Abriel: This part making sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: fancy words in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: She doesn't trust. She grew up not being able to trust and rely on what her mother was saying.
Gwenevere Abriel: But then when she got into a relationship. She wanted you probably would have shown up as
Gwenevere Abriel: expecting perfection really picking it every thing someone says, making sure picking up on any Miss truth. She wanted everything to be as exact as what someone says, as they do. I mean, just a real hyper, she said, sort of hyper vigilance to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: She wanted certainty and of course you know there's no such thing. But because she didn't have it as a child. She had a really hard time with trust and wanting things to be certain.
Gwenevere Abriel: But we live in an uncertain world.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so there has to be away to find balance.
Gwenevere Abriel: detaching from gaslighting does not mean total detachment.
Gwenevere Abriel: It means distinguishing between a world of the gas lighter and the real world.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you can live people have their alternative facts, you'll stick to reality.
Gwenevere Abriel: So if the only options for me were suicide or murder. How did I survive well there was actually a third option writing it down.
Gwenevere Abriel: This was my way of making sense of the chaos by organizing it on the page.
Gwenevere Abriel: This happened. This was real.
Gwenevere Abriel: Whether the writing was published or not it was something that had to be written
Gwenevere Abriel: To say what needed to be said, Okay, I'll stop it there. Just a little time to process.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what did you notice
Nadine Quintana: I noticed that
Nadine Quintana: I
Nadine Quintana: What everything she was saying was, bye.
Nadine Quintana: really familiar with me.
Nadine Quintana: Yeah, I'm pretty happy with the way down, like I
Nadine Quintana: I have some
Nadine Quintana: Some issues, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: But look how trust member to that word trust has been in our treatment plan this whole time.
Nadine Quintana: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: You also had an event as a young girl that's also plays into mistress about the world.
Gwenevere Abriel: You had the separation from your father and then passing SO THERE'S BEEN MOMENTS both developmental with mom. Possibly. I don't know how long she's been doing this behavior, but typically it's right around when
Gwenevere Abriel: You start to be able to talk like I mean, but it can be invalidating even as a baby. So I don't know how long it's been going on.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you tell me when you say, I think that it makes me think there's issues. What do you think those issues are
Nadine Quintana: Um,
Nadine Quintana: Give me me think like that's maybe where like I get my my
Nadine Quintana: My, my trust issues and and
Nadine Quintana: Just like open up and you know like afraid to say, or like over
Nadine Quintana: Not overthinking arm like always questioning everything like
Nadine Quintana: You know, instead of just saying
Nadine Quintana: What I feel
Nadine Quintana: Sometimes you
Gwenevere Abriel: Know you remember early on. And for most of the time, say, Well, I don't know what that means. What does that mean, that's right. And it started in
Gwenevere Abriel: Your now trusting that whatever your interpretation is it's good enough and you can respond so that piece right there and that front end of, well, what does that mean, and I don't like I need to know more, like, wanting that safety wanting certainty.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's changed.
Gwenevere Abriel: The progress.
Nadine Quintana: It made me think about like
Nadine Quintana: Stuff like that. Like how I'm like real, you know,
Nadine Quintana: I was, you know,
Nadine Quintana: I would push people back and just always
Nadine Quintana: Like, I'm not sure if that's what I've worked. I wasn't sure myself. And now I see why.
Nadine Quintana: I'm always
Gwenevere Abriel: A possibility of something to do with it. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And does it give you some ideas about. Yes, go for it. If you want to write those are options. You can try. See if your mom can hear.
Gwenevere Abriel: Her great
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, but there's this other way to if it doesn't pan out if she really cannot open her mind that maybe there's another reality, besides hers.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. And with this gal Ariel is is describing his mom's alternate reality.
Gwenevere Abriel: Accepting she's just going to see it differently. We see it differently, you and your sister happened to share some some realities and mom has hers.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we stopped trying to make her change. She cannot use logic and reason. So it's just another option if you don't want to get really, really frustrated with her.
Nadine Quintana: Yeah, I'm free. I have been actually really I have been doing that, like, kind of just being away.
Nadine Quintana: Um,
Nadine Quintana: But it's still is getting to me to where I'm just like,
Nadine Quintana: Even when she's out of town, it just
Nadine Quintana: Like I feel like I have a break from her like when she goes out of town. I'm just saying.
Nadine Quintana: Like if I'm sending like naughty kids away and I get to take a break for a weekend. That's how I feel like
Nadine Quintana: Relieved, but then
Nadine Quintana: Like every time I even tried to do that. I just try to distance myself or try to even agree with what she says. And just like she needs to say that's just what she what she goes up just work who she is.
Nadine Quintana: I tried to do that.
Nadine Quintana: But then it constantly like Captain like over and over, like, she'll call me and call me or text me and she'll be like, Oh, why don't you answer for me. Right. Oh, you don't want to talk to me and I'll try like No, Mom, I'm busy or something. So starting so naked.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so
Gwenevere Abriel: We're at the top of the hour. And I'd like to, if you're open to it, take what we did today.
Gwenevere Abriel: And pick it up again because then we can talk about ways to actually say something or text, something that will
Gwenevere Abriel: Show her you're you're here, you're still tethered to or you haven't caught her off like this, but you're not engaging in content.
Gwenevere Abriel: That you get to maintain like this defiance, meaning I will not pretend like you're altered reality is mine. I won't do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I won't go down that guilt trip. I won't do it. We're not going to say that, but if you just sort of maintain this, you know, like, like a like a little teenager like know
Gwenevere Abriel: What I'm trying to say. So maintaining that logical, right, and get that little imagery and then we'll come up with some fancy things that maybe we can just
Gwenevere Abriel: Send a little text. So she knows she's heard, but we don't have to engage in content that are neutral that are going to hopefully because her off let's let's pick that up next time.
Nadine Quintana: But do you do
Gwenevere Abriel: Yep. Are you starting back work or still not sure
Nadine Quintana: I'm still haven't heard nothing okay
Gwenevere Abriel: How about can we meet
Gwenevere Abriel: On
Nadine Quintana: June.
Gwenevere Abriel: 3 at seven.
Nadine Quintana: To
Nadine Quintana: Seven. Yes, let me just write it down so I I have it here.
Gwenevere Abriel: We are day. It's a Wednesday. So if you start working well, um, we've got to change that. But
Nadine Quintana: Okay, well, if, if I do happen to start working
Nadine Quintana: I'll call I'll text you like once I find out
Nadine Quintana: And let you know.
Nadine Quintana: Okay, so, June 3 at what time
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I'm glad I got to spend a little time with you on my next clients here.
Gwenevere Abriel: But kind of stupid that a little bit. You may want to look it up again watch it again if you want to really give it some thought I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of process. It's a pretty rich concept and maybe looking up concept. So there's a lot of people that have a lot of opinion about what gaslighting is
Gwenevere Abriel: Recognizing the way people do it what you would call a guilt trip or what I would say a denied reality what anyone says that didn't happen. And you're like, I was there. I know it happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: Before, right. You can't deny that I'm having a particular emotion like that's under your bit like
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm telling you, I'm sad. Like, you can't deny that. So that's kind of where those come up. And so it's just this lump term that can capture a lot of different behaviors.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm a big fan of it. But again, it's not a clinical term. It's not in the diagnostic manual or anything. It's just a term that
Gwenevere Abriel: I just love
Gwenevere Abriel: Because they did. We don't have another term in psychology for it. So I'm like, well, this is as good as any. I like it.
And her name.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is Arielle and it is called. I think it's how to deal with a guest later.
Nadine Quintana: Okay.
Nadine Quintana: Okay, I'll look
Nadine Quintana: I'm having my appointment corner. Okay. All right, good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, see you later.
Nadine Quintana: Okay, thank